{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2510;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\lang9\b\f0\fs22 Yogg Saron\par
\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\i (Information from the Library of YellowSeed, Schnicktick, Kel, Jappa, the trader, and Identification spells)\i0\par
Yogg Saron is an old god of insanity. It is believed that Yogg Saron has been slumbering for the entire entire existence of life on Sateda. Even though he has been slumbering, his influence is so great that some creatures in the past have been driven insane by his mental influence and became servants embodying his essence in physical form. These servants have caused destruction and chaos throughout ancient times and left remnants of power that can still be found today.\par
Yogg Saron's most powerful influence was through a great beast that is believed by many to have been the entire essence of Yogg. The beast was vanquished by an army of highly trained soldiers with the help of a demigod Ursoc, who described him as \ldblquote the beast with a thousand maws.\rdblquote  The beast had such a strong influence from Yogg, that the blood of the creature was used for forging great and powerful items following the beast's defeat. Unfortunately, as the blood was also influenced by Yogg, the items created with the beast's blood have an inherent connection to Yogg. Many believe this is when the Puzzle Box was created.\par
Yogg Sarons existence is believed to be unknown to most of the inhabitants of Sateda. However, Yogg's power is so vast that the maddening, destructive taint seeps from its resting place and appears to tear at the sanity of an unknown number of Satedans. Because of this, Yogg possesses worshipers across all the world's peoples and cultures.\par
The Yogg Saron puzzle box is an artifact that was created with a connection to Yogg Saron. It was essentially \lquote touched\rquote  by the power of this old god. The box is magically sealed and contains many shifting panels, hidden hinges, changing sides, magical barriers and more. The box is made of an alloy of hardened Yogg Saron blood (Saronite) and a substance called Katchin, which is one of the hardest materials in the universe. The box is indestructible and appears impossible to actually solve and open. When attempting to open the box, the box will whisper messages to the mind of those trying. It is unknown what is inside the box, but because of it having such a strong apparent connection to Yogg, it is believed to be invaluable for study.\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\b Unbenounced to the players - other information\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0 One of the greatly malevolent and ancient entities known only as Old Gods, Yogg-Saron held chaotic tyranny over the world of Sateda in the very distant past (at its creation), and was responsible for the creation of the Curse of Flesh (\ldblquote It's a condition that affects titan creations. Th' titans fashioned their creatures with immortality, mostly, or other divine means, so they could carry out their assigned duties tae th' world without fear o' deterioratin' or gettin' weak. But there are beings o' great magic an' malice that hate th' titans, and they sabotaged these creations by turnin' their bodies tae flesh like th' other creatures o' Sateda.\rdblquote ) to "facilitate assimilation" of the Titans' (Overdeities') creations. When the Titans waged war against the Old Gods and shattered their citadels, they found that the infestation of the entities had grown so severe that destroying the Old Gods would also lead to the annihilation of Sateda and most of hte known universe. Instead, the Pantheon of Titans took measures to neutralize the Old Gods' power and bind them within Sateda for the remainder of its existence. Yogg-Saron was sealed away within the depths of the ancient city of Ulduar in the far northern reaches of the infant world (which has been continually burried over through the course of multi-mellenia) and had six watchers assigned to it which served as wardens for its eternal imprisonment; the Titanic watchers known as Loken, Thorim, Hodir, Tyr, Mimiron and Freya. He was cast into a deep slumber, to be silenced until the end of time. \par
Unfortunately, even in his slumber, the powerful mind of a dormant Yogg Saron still had an influence of the beings around him. In time Loken would have an affair with Sif, the wife of his brother Thorim. Yogg-Saron, from his prison within Ulduar, muddled Loken's thoughts and made him lash out at Sif, scared at the thought of losing her, and he killed her by accident. Horrified at what he had done but too scared to tell Thorim the truth, Loken tricked Thorim into believing that it had been the work of Arngrim, the divine king of the frost giants, turning Thorim against his allies. Loken would stop the war between Thorim's and Arngrim's forces with an army he had created with the Divine Forge of Wills, but unknown to Loken, Yogg-Saron had planted the curse of flesh inside the forge, which would slowly convert titan-forged creations into flesh and could also spread to other divine beings.\par
With Thorim retreated to the Temple of Storms, Loken who was desperate to cover his actions, even if it meant using Yogg-Saron's power to do so, for if the Pantheon ever found out his life would be forfeit. He arranged the death of Mimiron, making it look like an accident, though Mimiron's mechagnome followers would create a new mechagnome body to house the Keeper's soul. Loken subdued Hodir and Freya, corrupting them into complacency with Yogg-Saron. Afterward, Loken exiled or killed all other beings from Ulduar and retreated into the depths of the complex.\par
For thousands of years the imprisoned Yogg-Saron was unable to do more than keeping the Keepers, Loken included, quiet and complacent inside Ulduar. His grasp on them was tenuous, and convincing them to directly help the Old God had proven fruitless in the past. It was not until Cho'gall of the Old God-worshiping Twilight's Hammer clan infiltrated Ulduar and weakened Yogg-Saron's chains that the entity's influence on the Keepers increased, becoming strong as iron. Yogg-Saron commanded Loken to create a new army from the Forge of Wills. In Loken's hands, the forge churned out legions of iron dwarves and warforged creations who sought only bloodshed and war.\b\par
\b0 Yogg-Saron was also the source of the corruption that befell the world tree Vordrassil, after its roots grew too close to the Old God's prison and allowed it and the other Old Gods to create the Emerald Nightmare. The ancient druids growing Vordrassil destroyed the tree immediately upon discovering the sheer power behind Yogg-Saron's corrupting influence, however the taint nonetheless continued to spread to the Grizzlemaw furbolgs (an early race of beings who inhabited forest parts of Sateda and spread through most of the planet's infant days) who came to inhabit the tree's stump ages later. They became murderously insane soon after settling within Vordrassil's remains, and began attempting to regrow the afflicted world tree. The Furbolgs also used the dire power still emanating from the tree's stump to resurrect the bear demi-god Ursoc, who returned to the world as a viciously twisted reflection of his former self.\par
As time past, the ancient world became a distant memory. Though throughout time there has always been follwers who have been influenced by the dormant thoughts of Yogg Saron. In the millennium of corruption (A period of time where it seems many dark or evil dieties began to reveal themselves to Sateda), the influence of Yogg Saron spread throughout almost all reaches of Sateda. With the curse of flesh as a threat to any divine beings, some of the dark dieties used this as a powerhold over others. With his dark influence over the times, multiple evil dieties of the time banded together to bring about a new divine manifestation of Yogg Saron himself. They saught to wake him from his slumber, and were able to create what they thought was a manifestation of Yogg Saron himself. Tyr, one of the old eternal watchers of the old god, was imbued with the corrupt essence of the old god himself, becoming a beast of a thousand maws. In reality, this was only a vessel that was sub-consiously controlled by the dormant old god in his slumber, but with power unbeknown to any being that inhabited Sateda. For hundreds of years, this manifestation reigned as King over Sateda, bringing the world nearly to destruction. With the combined efforts of the most powerful wizards, mortals, and even some dieties that existed on Sateda in that time. The being was emprisoned in what is known as the Puzzle Pox of Yogg Saron. This box was wrapped in layer upon layer of emprisonment to hold the being contained forevermore. It was deemed necessary, though all those being who joined in the fight against the manifestation, were sealed in time within the first layer of the puzzle box. Left to wage in eternal war with the beast at the most base level of this emprisonment within the box.\par
During its time on Sateda, The king of Tyr drained his blood and hardened it to forge a metal called Saronite. Corrupt with the taint of the old god himself, Saronite has found itself imbued in items all throughout Sateda, which corrupts them and connects them to the old god. This metal was used to arm entire armies used by Tyr in these times. As of today, remnants of these objects still exist spread throughout Sateda, as do followers and worshippers of the old god himself. Some unknowingly, but rather worshipping dieties that have pledged their existence to the power of he who lies dormant. The puzzle box's last layer was created with enchanted Saronite, in hopes to ward off anyone capable of breaking any one of its many seals and contain the essence that is within it.\b\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\b0\par
}
 